
Using the Aircrack-ng suite, we can start attacking a wifi network. This will walk you through attacking a network yourself, assuming you have a monitor mode enabled NIC.

The aircrack-ng suite consists of:  

- aircrack-ng
- airdecap-ng
- airmon-ng
- aireplay-ng
- airodump-ng
- airtun-ng
- packetforge-ng
- airbase-ng
- airdecloak-ng
- airolib-ng
- airserv-ng
- buddy-ng
- ivstools
- easside-ng
- tkiptun-ng
- wesside-ng

We'll want to use aircrack-ng, airodump-ng and airmon-ng to attack WPA networks.

The aircrack tools come by default with Kali, or can be installed with a package manager or from [https://www.aircrack-ng.org/](https://www.aircrack-ng.org/)  

I suggest creating a hotspot on a phone/tablet, picking a weak password (From rockyou.txt) and following along with every stage. To generate 5 random passwords from rockyou, you can use this command on Kali: `head /usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt -n 10000 | shuf -n 5 -`  

You will need a monitor mode NIC in order to capture the 4 way handshake. Many wireless cards support this, but it's important to note that not all of them do.

Injection mode helps, as you can use it to deauth a client in order to force a reconnect which forces the handshake to occur again. Otherwise, you have to wait for a client to connect normally.


## Answer the following questions

1) **How do you put the interface “wlan0” into monitor mode with Aircrack tools? (Full command)****

```Answer
airmon-ng -start wlan0
```

2) **What is the new interface name likely to be after you enable monitor mode?**

```Answer
wlan0mon
```

3) **What do you do if other processes are currently trying to use that network adapter?**

```Answer
airmon-ng check kill
```

4) **What tool from the aircrack-ng suite is used to create a capture?**

```Answer
airodump-ng
```

5) **What flag do you use to set the BSSID to monitor?**

```Answer
--bssid
```

6) **And to set the channel?**

```Answer
--channel
```

7) **And how do you tell it to capture packets to a file?**

```Answer
-w
```
