
- **Input validation** is something that is used to limit the user input for attaining just the required functionality through input testing.

- Methods of Input Validation are:
	- whitelisting
	- blacklisting

- **Syntactical Level:**
	-  Related to the syntax of any input. 
	- **For example:**
		- **Phone Number**: +9779812345678, which shows that we have a + symbol at the beginning of the syntax followed by a country code that could be between 1 to 3 in length along with the phone number, 10 in length allowing only digits from 0 to 9.

- **Semantic Level:**
	- Required when the correctness of the values is within the required context.
	- **For example:** Dates: Allowing dates with limits where required. If a date for a user’s enrollment within a university is given, the semantic validation should not allow the user to enter any dates before the enrollment date for graduation.

- Validation should be done for both the front end and back end.

### The following are the ways to set validations

- Checks for specific schemas such as JSON, XML, etc., and including strict checks for validation.

- Using exception handling to handle special cases and using data types to specify the type of data being input rather than using strings for every data type.

- The range of the characters should be checked and limited so that no more than the specified range can be input.

- Using regular expressions must be done to cover the whole string rather than just sections of the string i.e. using the ^ to scan from the starting of the string and $ till the end to make sure the whole string is selected rather than a substring involved.

- Only allow a set of required characters to be accepted

- Using encoding to encode special characters that need to be output to the page or application

- Validate the same set of rules for the name of the uploads for the files and rename them randomly using UUIDs or any naming convention that is very random.

- Validate the size of the uploaded file and the extension of the file. The extension of the file must be validated and limited.

- Validate the size of the uploaded file and the extension of the file. The extension of the file must be validated and limited.

- The uploaded files need to be scanned for any malicious content and need to be verified.

- The file path of the file must be set from the server side (backend) not the client side (frontend)

- The content type of the uploaded file must be predefined and served accordingly Executable scripts, configuration files, and other cross-domain config files must be blocked from uploading.

- Using image rewriting libraries to verify the validity of the image and removal of excess content should be done. The image must be set to be of certain formats only. Some feel that stopping the extension of the file would be a good solution but the content of the image needs to be checked beforehand as there are executable scripts that can be renamed and uploaded.

- Strict email address validation needs to be done from the client side as well as the server side. [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5321#section-4.1.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5321#section-4.1.2) defines the format of the email addresses. Using regex to have syntactic validation and using techniques to verify through semantic validation that the email actually exists is a way to validate emails.

- Blacklisting email addresses that are disposable could be a solution but since domains can be created and creating a mail server is very easy, the process to blacklist could be endless. So, whitelisting of email addresses could be done wherever possible.


### What to do when input fails validation

- **Two major approaches:** 
	- **Recovering**
	- **Failing**

- **Recovering:**
	
	- It implies that the input can be sanitized or fixed -- that is, that the problem that caused the failure can be solved programmatically.
	
	- Generally possible when you are taking a blacklisting approach for input validation, and it commonly takes the approach of removing bad characters from the input.
	
	- ***Major Disadvantage*** is ensuring that the filtering or removal of values does actually sanitize the input, and doesn't just mask the malicious input,  which can still lead to SQL injection.
	

- **Failing**:
	- Failing the action entails generating a security error, and possibly redirecting to a generic error page indicating to the user that the application had a problem and cannot continue. 